Sector lore:

Ancient Grotto:
A void infected port crashed here and changed the land around it. Ice and snow were liquified instantly, and the ores moved. It was turned into a grassland, partialy filled with life. The port moved on from this location, after creating a small base from the resources surounding.

Loggery:
Derelict had been cutting down trees here before they were pushed back. Coal is present here and is abundant. This was a zone full of life before a mass extinction and still is. The second port sent mechs to this area in hopes that it could delay the player from finding a way to purge the void.

Sinkhole:
Baren, like most things were untill grass had become a normality on Templura. Nothing of inturest has happened here, yet the void wants to keep hold of this place.

Frozen falls:
Water is found here in small lakes. More importantly, sand appears here, crushed and erroded stone filled with void. The crux forces had come here to research the sand's properties in a cold environment. 

---=---+---=---

Building Descriptions Related to lore

---=---+---=---

Unit Descriptions Related to lore

Mechanical Life

Catapult:
Life on Serpulo was harsh after the inccident of the first mass extinction. Nothing could survive. Or so we thought.

Trebuche:
There was life flourishing in the pockets of water scattered throughout Sepulo. They had adapted to the harsh circumstances, growing metallic scales.

Cannon:
Eventualy, after a few hundred years or so, life adapted to the surface's conditions. Not biological life, but mechanical life.

Howitzer:
Mechs which resembled inscects, fish, birds and more were formed.

---=---+---=---

The lore (In order of events)

Stone
//This is from the perspective of the crux, and they don't know what really causes the stone to glow as they can only percieve what is being simulated.
Surprisingly, each universe incarnation might be different from the last one in not just it's formation, but it's rules. Apparently in this iteration, radioactive materials take an extremely short time to react as processes down at the quantum level are sped up. How do we know this? The last iteration had left behind indestructible information before it was reborn. Information on how nuclear reactions worked. There was one exception that exists however. In the stone of planets, there remains a glowing property. Radioactive materiels in the stone of each planet decaying extremely slowly. We are able to see at night because of this. It emits enough light to dimly light up the surface of many planets. The light is on the lower end of the spectrum, still on the visible portion making it usable for a light source deep in space. This was normal to us. The glowing stone was a blessing to have and we valued it until we found better ways of lighting up our encampments.

Templura 

Taconite Pulveriser:
During the volitile stage of the universe, Templura and Serpulo, fated to meet, crashed into eachother with such force, the shockwave blew away the other planets in the system. The remains of Templura formed a small rocky planet while Sepulo, barely held together after the impact slowly reformed into a new world. Now it's ours. Come, our work is not done yet.

Ioniser:
However, there was a small problem with the formation of the planets. Held together by nothing but gravity, Templura's surface was jagged, unlike other planets which looked rounded, almost perfectly spherical.

Sand Reversal Unit:
Serpulo's surface was cooling down. It had a magnetic field caused by the swirling of molten metal at the planet's core, protecting gasses from intense solar winds. However, as there was high volcanic activity, the surface never formed an ocean. There were isolated pockets of water on it but no grand seas for sailors to explore.

Mechanical Life:
//This is from the perspective of the crux, and they don't know what really caused mechanical life as they can only perceive what is being simulated.
Sepulo was a lush planet full of life, which is evident due to the amount of coal present. That all changed one day. A mass extinction that wiped out nearly every lifeform on Sepulo happened, and there was almost no hope for it to recover it's biodiversity. It never did. Most land based creatures were wiped out after the initial freeze and the ones that survived died of starvation. The lakes were frozen and larger bodies of water covered in a thick layer of ice. These small isolated pockets of water would give birth to new life. Metallic beasts which roamed Sepulo acting like the fauna from before.

war
Core Beacon
Years ago, a great flood overwhelmed Serpulo and rusted the grounds. Some 1000 years later, when they returned, a great discovery was made.

Rusty Core
The predecessor of an old core was found and quickly scanned for it's structural integrity. blueprints were recovered from it, revealing the history of Sepulo's environment. 

Rusty Alpha:
After it was found, the slag wars began. Sepulo was going through a period of increased volcanic activity due to weak spots leftover from the planet's formation.

Rusty Delta:
Some went rogue. Others tried to help their relatives survive. In the end, it didn't matter though. The only places safe were now the ever increasing amount of caves.

slag

Volitile generator:
When they first discovered scrap, they didn't know what to think. One suggested that something happened, though the others dismissed the idea as blasphemy. 

Coal compresser:
Eventualy the bots had found out that it had many metals in it, even the valued thorium that kept their reactors fueled. For now, they tried to figure out how to extract the metals directly. Nothing they tried worked.  One of the bots decided to melt the scrap. They said that the idea was pointless, as these were ancient fossils which they were studying. The bot's name was dart. They were banished to the farlands and told never to come back again, with threats to be shot on sight.

Crux using pixelcraft tech

They had found it before us. It was inevitable. We had lost the race for the rusted core, and the schematics held within on Templura. As they setup the cores and drills, they realized that their technology was incompatible. a debate was to be held at their base on whether or not to claim Templura as their own. Eventualy, they came to the conclusion that they should take over Templura. One by one, prebuilt cores were launched onto the surface to find an uninhabited, living land free of spores.

Dunescape crags

Lava cannels run underground
A smell of char lingers...
The Derelict used a superweapon here
The usage of it brought downfall to their conquest to concour the planet
now all that remains is their tech

The infestation
The spores. Recognized as a source of power and the ruthless destroyer of life.
The crux unleashed spores onto Sepulo with full intention of wiping Derelict out. The infestation happened because the crux's spore production facilities were built in a spot where dialect would attack. This released the spores. They knew it would happen and it impacted dialect heavily, since they relied on natural sources to make power. This would be one of many blows to dialect as they slowly lost control of Sepulo.
Templura's life was resilient enough to fight back against the spores that happened to land on Templura from the crux's launch. There was one spot on Templura which was almost perfectly suited for the spores to inhabit however, and are the main source of spores on Templura.

The void

Mindustry, A corupted simulation. A replicaiton of Earth that was deemed saveable but extremely hard. It started it's life with a planet and a sun. The simulation only had to simulate two things for what it was suposed to do. We never predicted that one error put the simulation on the brink of destruction.

The simulation was formated like a game, objects having internal properties like health and speed. If  thing's hp dropred to 0 however, it was deleted and stoped existing instaid of it's state being turned to dead such as in our world.

We wanted to start anew, simulating a planet where we don't know and never will find out that we are in a simulation. The tools provided to us here much much stronger than anything in the simulated universe.

There was a problem with it however, starting with a little mistake. The simulation's host was damaged once. This caused a glitch in the system. An object that had the wrong properties. It coudn't be modified and before we were able to delete it, spread the coruption to other objects nearby like some sort of computer virus. We called the object spawned from this event, the null void.

The modifications were simple. Objects that were touched by the null void or other corupted objects were unable to be modified and randomly experianced slightly lower gravity, higher max velocities, lower air resistance and other various things to do with speed.

The file coruption eventualy got to a point where we could not delete objects via health modification fast enough and made the file harder to modify. The world was changing. The simulator using more processing power than before, creating history for the world an ever changing solar system.

As a last ditch effort, we made a port to the world. A way to interact with the world. We gave the terminal's entity the ability to infinitely appear with their own object to inhabit.

Fearing that the coruption had the power to coppy anything we did, we lowered the risk and created a flying ship with extremely weak combat ability. It could harnes the planet's natural resources and build objects from a database. 

The coruption responded by flinging objects towards the ship trying to delete it. It eventualy stoped, instaid resorting to corupting it. As another coppy of the port ship was made, the file was deemed salvageable and wasn't deleted. A coppy of this file was created as a backup, modified to look like a game and then shiped out to potentual testers.

At this point, the coruption had taken over the planet's surface and had used the port it corutped to create a mechanical race we dubed, the crux. File editers looked to help clear the coruptio but to no avail. Now, the game we call Mindustry is out there with nobody knowing what happened to make it a game.

Something happened to the null void which changed how the simulator worked. It was generating history for the already existing objects and modifying Sepulo bit by bit. The crux as we called it were droids built by a corupted port, having access to every object we had in our databases. 